It was late evening when K. arrived. The village lay under deep
snow. There was no sign of the Castle hill, fog and darkness
surrounded it, not even the faintest gleam of light suggested the
large Castle. K. stood a long time on the wooden bridge that
leads from the main road to the village, gazing upward into the
seeming emptiness.
Then he went looking for a night's lodging; at the inn they
were still awake; the landlord had no room available, but, extremely
surprised and confused by the latecomer, he was willing 
to let K. sleep on a straw mattress in the taproom, K. agreed to
this. A few peasants were still sitting over beer, but he did not
want to talk to anyone, got himself a straw mattress from the attic
and lay down by the stove. It was warm, the peasants were quiet, he examined them for a moment with tired eyes, then fell asleep.
Yet before long he was awakened. A young man in city
clothes, with an actor's face, narrow eyes, thick eyebrows, stood
beside him with the landlord. The peasants, too, were still there,
a few had turned their chairs around to see and hear better. The
young man apologized very politely for having awakened K., introduced
himself as the son of the Castle steward and said: "This
village is Castle property, anybody residing or spending the night
here is effectively residing or spending the night at the Castle.
Nobody may do so without permission from the Count. But you
have no such permission or at least you haven't shown it yet."
K., who had half-risen and smoothed his hair, looked at the
people from below and said: "What village have I wandered
into? So there is a castle here?"
"Why, of course," the young man said slowly, while several
peasants here and there shook their heads at K., "the Castle of
Count Westwest."
"And one needs permission to spend the night here?" asked
K., as though he wanted to persuade himself that he hadn't perhaps
heard the previous statements in a dream.
"Permission is needed" was the reply, and this turned into
crude mockery at K.'s expense when the young man, stretching
out his arm, asked the landlord and the guests: "Or perhaps permission
is not needed?"
"Then I must go and get myself permission," said K., yawning
and pushing off the blanket, as though he intended to get up.
"Yes, but from whom?" asked the young man.
"From the Count," said K., "there doesn't seem to be any alternative."
"Get permission from the Count, now, at midnight?" cried
the young man, stepping back a pace.
"ls that not possible?" K. asked calmly. "Then why did you
wake me up?"
The young man now lost his composure, "The manners of a
tramp!" he cried. "I demand respect for the Count's authorities.
I awakened you to inform you that you must leave the Count's
domain at once."
"Enough of this comedy," said K. in a remarkably soft voice
as he lay down and pulled up the blanket: "You are going a little
too far, young man, and I shall deal with your conduct tomorrow.
The landlord and those gentlemen there will be my witnesses,
should I even need witnesses. Besides, be advised that I
am the land surveyor sent for by the Count. My assistants and
the equipment are coming tomorrow by carriage. I didn't want to
deprive myself of a long walk through the snow, but unfortunately
lost my way a few times, which is why I arrived so late.
That it was too late then to report to the Castle is something that
was already apparent to me without the benefit of your instructions.
That's also the reason why I decided to content myself with
these lodgings, where you have been so impolite-to put it
mildly-as to disturb me. I have nothing further to add to that
statement. Good night, gentlemen." And K. turned toward the
stove.
"Land surveyor?" he heard someone asking hesitantly behind
his back, and then everyone was silent. But the young man soon
regained his composure and said to the landlord, softly enough
to suggest concern for K.'s sleep, yet loudly enough to be audible
to him: "I shall inquire by telephone." So there was even a telephone
in this village inn? They were certainly well equipped.
True, certain details took K. by surprise, but on the whole everything
was as expected. As it turned out, the telephone hung from
the wall almost directly above his head, in his sleepiness he had
overlooked it. If the young man had to use the telephone, then
even with the best intentions he could not avoid disturbing K.'s
sleep, it was simply a matter of deciding whether or not to let him
use the telephone, K. decided to allow it. But then of course it no
longer made sense to pretend he was asleep, so he turned over on
his back again. He watched the peasants gathering timidly and
conferring, the arrival of a land surveyor was no trifling matter.
The door to the kitchen had opened; filling the doorway was the
mighty figure of the landlady, the landlord approached her on
tiptoes in order to report to her. Then the telephone conversation
began. The steward was asleep, but a substeward, one of the substewards, a Mr. Fritz, was there. The young man, who introduced
himself as Schwarzer, said that he had found K., a man in
his thirties, rather shabby-looking, sleeping quietly on a straw
mattress, with a tiny rucksack for a pillow and a knobby walking
stick within reach. Well, he had of course suspected him, and
since the landlord had obviously neglected his duty, it was his,
Schwarzer's, duty to investigate the matter. K.'s response on being
awakened, questioned, and duly threatened with expulsion
from the Count's domain had been most ungracious but perhaps
not unjustifiably so, as had finally become evident, for he claimed
to be a land surveyor summoned by the Count. He was dutybound
to check this claim, if only as a formality, and so Schwarzer
was asking Mr. Fritz to inquire at the central office whether a land
surveyor of that sort was really expected and to telephone immediately
with the answer.